# SQL Exploratory Data Analysis Layoffs

### Identifying Extremes: Mass layoffs and total shutdowns
From our exploratory data analysis, we used the MAX() function to find the highest layoffs for a company, which was 12,000. The highest layoff perecntage was 1.0 (100%), meaning every employee was let go, due to bankrupcy/liquidation or a full business closure. Interestingly, some companies had raised millions of funding, yet still completely collapsed, proving high capital does not always prevent total shutdown. For example, Britishvolt raised 2.4 billion, but let off all of the employees; the company collapsed. This could be due to spending high amounts on salaries etc, or investors pulling out due to missed deadlines.

### Highest Layoffs
Unsiprisingly, bigger companies like Amazon (18150 layoffs), Google (12000 layoffs)and Meta (11000 layoffs) had the greatest number of layoffs for all the companies in the global dataset. This makes sense as these companies have the most employees. However, looking at the percentage of layoffs, for example Amazon (2.5% laid off), are nowhere near at a level of collapsing like britishvolt who had every employee let off, yet britishvolt only had 206 employees across the whole company. It is imperative to always look at the percentage of data, as looking at the raw total only tells you the volume, not the situation of a company. Also, because this dataset was between 2020 and 2023, a high amount of layoffs for companies could be due to the covid 19 pandemic- companies did not have the capacity to pay people salaries while not bringing any money themselves. From a simple query we found out that the industries with the highest layoffs was consumer, retail and transportation, which is expected as the global lockdown stoped human interaction, thus companies had no choice but to let go of employees.

###
